Add declarativeNetRequest (#22644)
mdn/content: files/en-us/mozilla/add-ons/webextensions/api/declarativenetrequest/modifyheaderinfo/index.md

---
title: declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/ModifyHeaderInfo
tags:
  - API
  - Add-ons
  - Extensions
  - Reference
  - WebExtensions
  - Type
  - declarativeNetRequest
  - ModifyHeaderInfo
browser-compat: webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo
---

{{AddonSidebar()}}

The request headers to modify for a request.

## Type

Values of this type are objects. They contain these properties:

- `header`
  - : A `string`. The name of the header to be modified.
- `operation`

>   - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

Author: @Rob--W OK with the note in the BCD, or does it still need updating for "In Firefox, there are no restrictions on the headers to modify. The "Host" request header does require host permissions for the new value." - did I miss that in the BCD comment?

>   - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

Author: @Rob--W sorry, I thought I was updating the BCD as you requested. Seems like you're saying that the BCD information about `requestHeaders` should be under `ModifyHeaderInfo`? Beyond that, I have to admit I'm confused; where did this discussion about a bug come from? Can you offer some more specific suggestions about changes to the documentation?

>   - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

Reviewer: > @Rob--W sorry, I thought I was updating the BCD as you requested. Seems like you're saying that the BCD information about `requestHeaders` should be under `ModifyHeaderInfo`?

The BCD headers about requestHeaders/responseHeaders should be rendered in the BCD of the ModifyHeaderInfo. I vaguely recall seeing a composition of multiple BCD entries in some article, I wonder whether that's possible here too.

> Beyond that, I have to admit I'm confused; where did this discussion about a bug come from?

You asked "does it still need updating for "In Firefox, there are no restrictions on the headers to modify."".
I interpret the addition of a special note to the BCD as documentation of unusual behavior, often a bug or something temporary. I responded to that with "Not having restrictions is not a bug", as in "This is normal behavior"

> Can you offer some more specific suggestions about changes to the documentation?

A section that elaborates on the two bullet points above.

>   - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

Author: I have added notes to elaborate on the two bullet points.

For the BCD, I can't find any documentation or examples which would suggest what you're asking for is possible, at least not without duplicating content in the BCD.

>   - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

Reviewer: I just looked it up, apparently you can put multiple entries in the `browser-data` section, as documented at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Compatibility_tables#using_bcd_data_in_mdn_pages , with an example at https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Channel_Messaging_API#browser_compatibility, whose source is at  https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/c49f6dcd20b14f28218aa26030ebbb2f54143521/files/en-us/web/api/channel_messaging_api/index.md?plain=1#L11-L13

The source of the `Compat` template is at https://github.com/mdn/yari/blob/c5aa267b325715f6b362ca6826eb6d8ffdd58215/kumascript/macros/Compat.ejs , which does indeed show that it is supposed to work.

>   - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

Author: Thanks @Rob--W I should have realized I wasn't at the definitive guide when I couldn't find any information about browser-compat in the [section about front matter](https://github.com/mdn/content/blob/main/CONTRIBUTING.md#front-matter). I've added the `ModifyHeaderInfo` BCD onto the `RuleAction` page.

>   - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

Author: @Rob--W This is now represented with the BCD from RuleAction.requestHeaders & RuleAction.responseHeaders. All feedback should now be addressed.

---
title: declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo
slug: Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest/ModifyHeaderInfo
tags:
  - API
  - Add-ons
  - Extensions
  - Reference
  - WebExtensions
  - Type
  - declarativeNetRequest
  - ModifyHeaderInfo
browser-compat: webextensions.api.declarativeNetRequest.ModifyHeaderInfo
---

{{AddonSidebar()}}

The request or response header to modify for a request, declared in the `rule.action.requestHeaders` array or `rule.action.responseHeaders` array for rules whose {{WebExtAPIRef("declarativeNetRequest.RuleAction", "rule.action")}}`.type` is "modifyHeaders".

Each object describes one header modification. To modify multiple headers, multiple objects can be specified in these arrays, or across multiple rules.

> More than one extension may include rules that request the modification of a header. When this occurs:

Author: @Rob--W is this correct? I'm having difficulty following the logic.

Reviewer: I've suggested an edit, starting with "The bullet point"

> Each object describes one header modification. To modify multiple headers, multiple objects can be specified in these arrays, or across multiple rules.
> 
> More than one extension may include rules that request the modification of a header. When this occurs:
> 
> - If the request is not blocked or redirected, the most recently installed extension gets priority. Within each extension, all `modifyHeaders` rules with a priority lower than matching `allow` or `allowAllRequests` rules are ignored.
> 
> - If multiple `modifyHeaders` rules specify the same header, the resulting modification for the header is determined based on the priority of each rule and the operations specified:
> 
>   - If a rule has been appended to a header, then lower-priority rules can only append to that header. `set` and `remove` operations are not permitted.
>   - If a rule has set a header, lower priority rules cannot modify the header except for `append` rules from the same extension.
>   - If a rule has removed a header, lower priority rules cannot modify the header.

Reviewer: The bullet point "If multiple `modifyHeaders` rules specify the same header," applies universally, and is not conditional on "If multiple `modifyHeaders` rules specify the same header". I have fixed this as follows:
-  Remove duplicate information about order of processing, and defer to the existing (or new :) ) "Matching Precedents" section.
- Remove an indentation level between each remaining bullet point.

```suggestion
Each object describes one header modification. To modify multiple headers, multiple objects can be specified in these arrays, or across multiple rules.

Matching `modifyHeaders` rules are applied in the order described at [Matching precedents](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest#matching_precedents).
Within each extension, all `modifyHeaders` rules with a priority lower than or equal to matching `allow` or `allowAllRequests` rules are ignored.

If multiple `modifyHeaders` rules specify the same header, the resulting modification for the header is determined based on the priority of each rule and the operations specified:

- If a rule has been appended to a header, then lower-priority rules can only append to that header. `set` and `remove` operations are not permitted.
- If a rule has set a header, lower priority rules cannot modify the header except for `append` rules from the same extension.
- If a rule has removed a header, lower priority rules cannot modify the header.
```

Matching `modifyHeaders` rules are applied in the order described at [Matching precedents](/en-US/docs/Mozilla/Add-ons/WebExtensions/API/declarativeNetRequest#matching_precedents).
Within each extension, all `modifyHeaders` rules with a priority lower than or equal to matching `allow` or `allowAllRequests` rules are ignored.

If multiple `modifyHeaders` rules specify the same header, the resulting modification for the header is determined based on the priority of each rule and the operations specified:

- If a rule has been appended to a header, then lower-priority rules can only append to that header. `set` and `remove` operations are not permitted.
- If a rule has set a header, lower priority rules cannot modify the header except for `append` rules from the same extension.
- If a rule has removed a header, lower priority rules cannot modify the header.

## Type

Values of this type are objects. They contain these properties:

- `header`
  - : A `string`. The name of the header to be modified.
- `operation`
  - : A `string`. The operation to be performed on a header. Possible values are `"append"`, `"set"`, and `"remove"`.

>       In Chrome, `"append"` is supported for the following request headers:
>     - `Accept`
>     - `Accept-Encoding`
>     - `Accept-Language`
>     - `Access-Control-Request-Headers`
>     - `Cache-Control`
>     - `Connection`
>     - `Content-Language`
>     - `Cookie`
>     - `Forwarded`
>     - `If-Match`
>     - `If-None-Match`
>     - `Keep-Alive`
>     - `Range`
>     - `Te`
>     - `Trailer`
>     - `Transfer-Encoding`
>     - `Upgrade`
>     - `Via`
>     - `Want-Digest`
>     - `X-Forwarded-For`
>       In Firefox, the extension needs host permissions for the new value of the `Host` header.
> - `value` {{optional_inline}}
>   - : A `string`. The new value for the header. Must be specified for append and set operations. Not allowed for the "remove" operation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `value` {{optional_inline}}
  - : A `string`. The new value for the header. Must be specified for append and set operations. Not allowed for the "remove" operation.
  
## Header limits

In Chrome, `"append"` is supported for the following request headers:

 - `Accept`
 - `Accept-Encoding`
 - `Accept-Language`
 - `Access-Control-Request-Headers`
 - `Cache-Control`
 - `Connection`
 - `Content-Language`
 - `Cookie`
 - `Forwarded`
 - `If-Match`
 - `If-None-Match`
 - `Keep-Alive`
 - `Range`
 - `Te`
 - `Trailer`
 - `Transfer-Encoding`
 - `Upgrade`
 - `Via`
 - `Want-Digest`
 - `X-Forwarded-For`

In Firefox, the extension needs host permissions for the new value of the `Host` header.

```

The formatting is off. In the rendered result, "In Firefox" is now on the same line as `X-Forwarded-For`.

To fix that formatting issue and keep this section of properties readable (opposed to the last property name, `value` being hidden), I have opted for creating a new section.
